---
title: "Codebook"
author: "Nick Woods"
date: "February 29, 2016"
output: html_document
---

The script, run_analysis.R, tidies data generated by an experiment conducted by Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto of Smartlab at the Università degli Studi di Genova. The experiment involved 30 volunteer subjects who wore a Samsung Galaxy S II smartphone while engaging in one of six activities (walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing, or lying) and allowing the smartphone to take measurments. More information can be found in the README file of the experimental data:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

The script dowloads the ZIP file above, merges the information found in the 'train' and 'test' folders, and presents information on 66 measurments derived from information obtained from the phone (the experimenters gave other statistical information, but we have discarded it). There are two data frames of note - 'results', which gives information on 10299 separate observations obtained by the experimenters, and 'resultsMeans', which takes the means of all observations where the subject and the activity are the same.

A description of the variables follows. Because there are 66 dependent variables, the components of the variable names will be described rather than every variable separately.
  * **subject** - ID for the participant of the experiment. Numbered 1 through 30.
  * **activity** - Description of what the subject was doing during the observation (walking, walking_upstairs, walking_downstairs, sitting, standing, or lying).
  * **timedomainsignalof** - From the authors: "These time domain signals were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise."
  * **frequencydomainsignalof** - Denotes that a Fast Fourier Transform was applied to the variable.
  * **along(x,y,z)axis** - Gives the dimension over which the measurments were taken.
  * **bodyacceleration** - Measurments taken by phone accelerometer.
  * **bodyangularvelocity** - Measurments taken by phone gyroscope.
  * **bodyjerkfrom(accelration/velocity)** - Observed by deriving the indicated variable in time.
  * **magnitude** - Derived from the three directional values by taking the euclidean norm.
  
In addition, there are some variables that have "bodybody" in there title; these are not mentioned by the orignial authors and are included here for completeness.